{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f16\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f17\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}
{\f19\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f20\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f21\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\author Wm Mennel}{\operator Wm Mennel}{\creatim\yr2002\mo8\dy16\hr13\min5}
{\revtim\yr2003\mo4\dy10\hr10\min57}{\version7}{\edmins55}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords0}{\nofchars0}{\*\company NJDEP}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern113}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\formshade\viewkind1\viewscale97\viewzk2\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\b Atlas Sheet Coordinate System
\par }{
\par }\pard \fi720\widctlpar\adjustright {The New Jersey Geological Survey (NJGS) developed a location system, known as the New Jersey Atlas Sheet Coordinate System (ASCS) (Kummel, 1912, p.13 Bulletin 6 and Kummel, 1913 p.12 Bull
etin 8). The ASCS was designed to be easier to use and understand than the latitude and longitude system. 
\par 
\par The Atlas Sheets, on a scale of 1:63,360, or 1 inch per mile, are the basis of the system. The sheets are numbered from 21 to 37, and are divided in
to rectangles, each covering, 2 minutes of latitude and longitude. Each Atlas Sheet spans 28 degrees of latitude and 26 degrees of longitude, making 13 rectangles from east to west and 14 from north to south. 
\par 
\par }{Every third line of latitude and longitude delineates a 6-minute block, for 16 complete blocks, each containing 9 smaller 2-minute rectangles. Beginning in the upper left-hand corner, these blocks are numbered across the sheet 01 to 0}{4}{
. The blocks of the second row are numbered 11 to 1}{4}{, those of the third row 21 to 2}{4}{, of the fourth row 31 to 3}{4}{. 
\par }{
\par }{In addition to the 16 complete 6-minute blocks there is, along the right-hand side of the sheet, a single row of 2-minute rectangles and along the bottom, a dou
ble row of 2-minute rectangles. The incomplete blocks of the fifth row at the bottom, 41 to 44, contain 6 of the 2-minute rectangles. The blocks along the right (vertical) side (05, 15, 25, and 35) each contain 3 of the 2-minute rectangles. Block 45 in th
e lower right corner contains only 2 of the 2-minute rectangles. The arrangement and numbering of these blocks form the primary divisions of each atlas sheet. 
\par }{
\par The nine 2-minute rectangles in each of the complete blocks are numbered from 1 to 9, beginning in the upper left-hand corner, and numbered to the r
ight, 4 being on the left under 1. The subdivision of the rectangles for the incomplete blocks at the right are numbered 1, 4, and 7; and those at the bottom 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6; and of block 45 in the lower right corner 1 and 4. 
\par 
\par A further subdivision of each of these rectangles into squares and units is necessary in order to fix locations to an area of approximately 30 acres, and these subdivisions are likewise numbered 1 to 9. 
\par 
\par If the number, of the atlas sheet, is followed by the number of each of these smaller divisions or units. Each 30 acre parcel in the State acquires a unique 7 digit number. The number enables any point to be located quickly on any atlas sheet. 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {
\par }}