{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f16\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f17\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}
{\f19\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f20\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f21\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\title No State Plane help at this time}{\author Wm Mennel}{\operator Wm Mennel}
{\creatim\yr2002\mo8\dy30\hr8\min11}{\revtim\yr2003\mo3\dy24\hr8\min37}{\version4}{\edmins41}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords0}{\nofchars0}{\*\company NJDEP}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern113}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\formshade\viewkind1\viewscale102\viewzk2\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\b Coordinate Entry Conventions
\par }{
\par }{\b State Plane Coordinates (Easting & Northing)
\par }\pard \fi720\widctlpar\adjustright {State plane coordinates are NAD83 datum points. The easting and northing are to be entered in US survey feet with up to three decimal places.
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\b 
\par Geographic Coordinates (Latitude & Longitude)
\par }\pard \fi720\widctlpar\adjustright {Latitude and longitude can be in either NAD27 or NAD83. They can be
 entered as either decimal degrees or as degrees, minutes, and decimal seconds. If entered as decimal degrees at least five decimal places should be entered. If entered as degrees, minutes, and decimal seconds the value needs to be entered without spaces 
between the units and with leading zeros in the minutes and seconds for values less than ten. Up to three decimal places may be entered. The longitude is always entered as a positive value without a leading zero.
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {
\par }{\b Atlas Sheet Coordinates
\par }\pard \fi720\widctlpar\adjustright {The Atlas Sheet coordinate is a seven-digit number. All seven-digits must be entered. Entry is contro}{ll}{ed by the use of a mask. The second pai
r of digits, which represent a specific block on the atlas sheet, must be entered with a leading zero for blocks one through five. These coordinates are based on NAD27 so the latitude and longitude generated are NAD27. 
\par }{
\par }}