{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f16\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f17\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}
{\f19\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f20\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f21\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\title No State Plane help at this time}{\author Wm Mennel}{\operator Wm Mennel}
{\creatim\yr2002\mo8\dy29\hr13\min58}{\revtim\yr2003\mo3\dy24\hr9\min1}{\version3}{\edmins1}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords0}{\nofchars0}{\*\company NJDEP}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern113}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\formshade\viewkind1\viewscale97\viewzk2\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\b NAD27 <=> NAD83
\par }{
\par }\pard \fi720\widctlpar\adjustright {
The coordinate reference system North American Datum of 1927 (NAD27) was adopted in 1913 and is based on the Clarke reference ellipsoid. The Geodetic survey station MEADES RANCH in Osborne County, Kansas, was selected as the reference point for this datum
. 
\par 
\par With the development of global positioning system (GPS), the capability was provided for obtaining more precise positional data. GPS data was "forced" to fit the original NAD27 network, which caused distortions in the positional data. 
\par 
\par The development of
 the NAD83 included both a readjustment of the survey observations and a redefinition of the datum. This new datum was defined using the Geodetic Reference System 1980 (GRS80) as the reference ellipsoid. The GRS80 ellipsoid is geocentric and more closely 
approximates the true size and shape of the Earth. A readjustment was also done using a simultaneous least-squares method of adjustment to minimize mathematical distortions. This x,y coordinate shift can exceed 400 meters in some parts of the country. 

\par 
\par Locations obtained using GPS receivers are in NAD83 as are Digital Ortho Photo quads. Older digital data products such as US Geological Survey (USGS) Digital Line Graph data (digital representation of features found on USGS quad maps) are generally NAD27.
 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {
\par }}