{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f16\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f17\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}
{\f19\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f20\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f21\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\title Limitations}{\author Wm Mennel}{\operator Wm Mennel}
{\creatim\yr2002\mo12\dy13\hr13\min14}{\revtim\yr2003\mo3\dy24\hr9\min8}{\version6}{\edmins10}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords901}{\nofchars5140}{\*\company NJDEP}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern113}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\formshade\viewkind1\viewscale98\viewzk2\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\b Limitations
\par }{
\par }\pard \fi720\widctlpar\adjustright {This program was d
esigned to convert New Jersey State plane coordinates (NAD83) to latitude and longitude (NAD27 and NAD83). The geographic area for which this conversion will work is bounded on the east by longitude 73\'b0 37' 30" and on the west by 75\'b0
 37" 30". It is bounded on the south by latitude 38\'b0 45' 00" and on the north by 41\'b0 22' 30". This conversion is for the horizontal coordinates and does not address the vertical coordinate. 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {
\par 
\par 
\par }{\b Coordinate Entry Conventions
\par }{
\par }{\b State Plane Coordinates (Easting & Northing)
\par }\pard \fi720\widctlpar\adjustright {State plane coordinates are NAD83 datum points. The easting and northing are to be entered in US survey feet with up to three decimal places.
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\b 
\par Geographic Coordinates (Latitude & Longitude)
\par }\pard \fi720\widctlpar\adjustright {Latitude and longitude can be in either NAD27 or NAD83. They can be entered as either decimal degrees or as degrees, minutes, and decimal seconds. If entered as decimal degrees at
 least five decimal places should be entered. If entered as degrees, minutes, and decimal seconds the value needs to be entered without spaces between the units and with leading zeros in the minutes and seconds for values less than ten. Up to three decima
l places may be entered. The longitude is always entered as a positive value without a leading zero.
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {
\par }{\b Atlas Sheet Coordinates
\par }\pard \fi720\widctlpar\adjustright {The Atlas Sheet coordinate is a seven-digit number. All seven-digits must be entered. Entry is controlled by the use of a mask. The
 second pair of digits, which represent a specific block on the atlas sheet, must be entered with a leading zero for blocks one through five. These coordinates are based on NAD27 so the latitude and longitude generated are NAD27. 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {
\par 
\par 
\par }{\b Atlas Sheet Coordinate System
\par }{
\par }\pard \fi720\widctlpar\adjustright {\tab 
The New Jersey Geological Survey (NJGS) developed a location system, known as the New Jersey Atlas Sheet Coordinate System (ASCS) (Kummel, 1912, p.13 Bulletin 6 and Kummel, 1913 p.12 Bulletin 8). The ASCS was designed to be easier to use and unde
rstand than the latitude and longitude system. 
\par 
\par The Atlas Sheets, on a scale of 1:63,360, or 1 inch per mile, are the basis of the system. The sheets are numbered from 21 to 37, and are divided into rectangles, each covering, 2 minutes of latitude and lon
gitude. Each Atlas Sheet spans 28 degrees of latitude and 26 degrees of longitude, making 13 rectangles from east to west and 14 from north to south. 
\par 
\par Every third line of latitude and longitude delineates a 6-minute block, for 16 complete blocks, each con
taining 9 smaller 2-minute rectangles. In addition to the 16 complete 6-minute blocks there is, along the right-hand side of the sheet, a single row of 2-minute rectangles and along the bottom, a double row of 2-minute rectangles. 
\par 
\par Beginning in the upper 
left-hand corner, these blocks are numbered across the sheet 01 to 05. The blocks of the second row are numbered 11 to 15, those of the third row 21 to 25, of the fourth row 31 to 35. The incomplete blocks of the fifth row at the bottom, 41 to 44, contain
 
6 of the 2-minute rectangles. The blocks along the right (vertical) side (05, 15, 25, and 35) each contain 3 of the 2-minute rectangles. Block 45 in the lower right corner contains only 2 of the 2-minute rectangles. The arrangement and numbering of these 
blocks form the primary divisions of each atlas sheet. 
\par 
\par The nine 2-minute rectangles in each of these blocks are numbered from 1 to 9, beginning in the upper left-hand corner, and numbered to the right, 4 being on the left under 1. The subdivision of the r
ectangles for the incomplete blocks at the right are numbered 1, 4, and 7; and those at the bottom 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6; and of block 45 in the lower right corner 1 and 4. 
\par 
\par A further subdivision of each of these rectangles into squares and units is necessary in order to fix locations to an area of approximately 30 acres, and these subdivisions are likewise numbered 1 to 9. 
\par 
\par If the number, of the atlas sheet, is followed by the number of each of these smaller divisions or units. Each 30 acre parcel in the State acquires a unique 7 digit number. The number enables any point to be located quickly on any atlas sheet. 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {
\par 
\par 
\par }{\b State Plane Coordinate System (SPCS)
\par 
\par }\pard \fi720\widctlpar\adjustright {It is impossible to map a curved Earth on a flat map using plane coordinates (x,y or n
orthing, easting) without distorting angles, distances, or areas. It is possible to design a map projection such that some of the three are undisturbed or minimally distorted. The State Plane Coordinate System (SPCS) is a map projection system that minimi
z
es angular distortions if only a small portion of the earth is flattened out. Thus, the SPCS is a rectangular (x,y or northing, easting) coordinate system describing geodetic positions of a limited area (a state or a portion of it) on a plane. The (x,y) c
oordinates are computed by projecting latitudes and longitudes from a mathematical approximation of the earth (i.e., NAD83) onto a rectangular grid. 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \fi720\widctlpar\adjustright {By law, the New Jersey State Plane Coordinate System (based on NAD83) is the official survey base for the State of New Jersey (R.S.51:3-7).
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {
\par 
\par 
\par }{\b NAD27 <=> NAD83
\par }{
\par }\pard \fi720\widctlpar\adjustright {The coordinate reference system North American Datum of 1927 (NAD27) was adopted in 1913 and is based on the Clarke reference ellipsoid. The Geodetic survey station MEADES RANCH in Osborne County, Kansa
s, was selected as the reference point for this datum. 
\par 
\par With the development of global positioning system (GPS), the capability was provided for obtaining more precise positional data. GPS data was "forced" to fit the original NAD27 network, which caused distortions in the positional data. 
\par 
\par The development of the NAD83 included both a readjustment of the survey observations and a redefinition of the datum. This new datum was defined using the Geodetic Reference System 1980 (GRS80) as the reference ellipso
id. The GRS80 ellipsoid is geocentric and more closely approximates the true size and shape of the Earth. A readjustment was also done using a simultaneous least-squares method of adjustment to minimize mathematical distortions. This x,y coordinate shift 
can exceed 400 meters in some parts of the country. 
\par 
\par Locations obtained using GPS receivers are in NAD83 as are Digital Ortho Photo quads. Older digital data products such as US Geological Survey (USGS) Digital Line Graph data (digital representation of fe
atures found on USGS quad maps) are generally NAD27. 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {
\par 
\par }}